---
title: "Predicting Obesity Using Logistic Regression Model."
date: 2023-11-03
---

### Dataset
The dataset can be accessed [here](https://www.kaggle.com/code/yunasheng/obesityprediction-eda-multiplemodels-accuracy-100/input?select=obesity_data.csv).

### What's logistic regression? 

Logistic regression is a statistical method typically used for modeling the relationship between a binary dependent variable and one or more independent variables. Unlike linear regression, which predicts continuous outcomes, logistic regression is designed for binary outcomes—situations where the response variable can take on only two possible outcomes. This characteristic makes logistic regression particularly suitable for classification problems, such as determining whether an individual is likely to have a condition or not, based on various predictors. It predicts the probability that a given input belongs to a particular category—making it perfect for situations where the outcome is either 'Yes' or 'No'. In the case of obesity prediction, logistic regression helps us estimate the likelihood of an individual being obese based on factors like age, gender, height, weight, BMI (Body Mass Index), and physical activity level.
Furthermore, in the context of predicting obesity, logistic regression is a good choice(*Not perfect, no model is perfect!*),because the outcome we're interested in—whether an individual is obese or not—is inherently binary. Obesity can be classified as either present (1) or absent (0), fitting the binary framework logistic regression operates within. The model doesn't directly predict the probability of being obese; instead, it estimates the odds of the occurrence of obesity, which can be converted into a probability using the logistic function. [Here](https://www2.stat.duke.edu/courses/Spring13/sta102.001/Lec/Lec20.pdf) you can learn more about logistic regression's theory. 

In context to our analysis, the logistic regression model can be defined as:

$$
P(Y=1 \mid X) = \frac{1}{1 + e^{-(\beta_0 + \beta_1 X_1 + \beta_2 X_2 + \ldots + \beta_n X_n)}}
$$

Where:
- $P(Y=1 \mid X)$ is the probability of the outcome being '1' (e.g., being obese) given the predictor variables $X$.
- $X_1, X_2, \ldots, X_n$ represent the predictor variables such as Age, Gender, Height, Weight, BMI, and PhysicalActivityLevel.
- $\beta_0, \beta_1, \ldots, \beta_n$ are the coefficients that measure the impact of each predictor variable on the log odds of the outcome.
- $e$ is the base of the natural logarithm, approximately equal to 2.718


### Now that we understand what logistic regression is, how it works, and why it's suitable for our dataset, let's get into the main work:

Here, we will use **Python** to execute our analysis.
First we will load the dataset in our Python environment, I used my dataset path. You will use yours.

```python
import pandas as pd

# Define the file path
file_path = r"C:\Users\hkmah\OneDrive\Desktop\GitHub\Obesity\obesity_data.csv"

# Load the dataset
obesity_data = pd.read_csv(file_path)

# Display the first few rows of the dataset
print(obesity_data.head())
```
After loading the dataset, you will get output something like that:
|   Age | Gender   |   Height |   Weight |   BMI |   PhysicalActivityLevel | ObesityCategory   |
|------:|:---------|---------:|---------:|------:|------------------------:|:------------------|
|    56 | Male     |   173.57 |    71.98 | 23.89 |                       4 | Normal weight     |
|    69 | Male     |   164.13 |    89.96 | 33.40 |                       2 | Obese             |
|    46 | Female   |   168.07 |    72.93 | 25.82 |                       4 | Overweight        |
|    32 | Male     |   168.46 |    84.89 | 29.91 |                       3 | Overweight        |
|    60 | Male     |   183.57 |    69.04 | 20.49 |                       3 | Normal weight     |












